Bombs Away Analysis

Contents
    Introduction
    Technology
    Game Play
    Display Layout
        Stage Area
            Stage Graphic Scaling
            Aircraft Motion
    Sound Effects

<h1>Introduction
    Bombs Away is a game for one player, in which the objective is to
    shoot down as many bomber planes as possible to defend the city
    buildings from their bombs.

    Points are scored for each plane shot down and lost for each building
    bombed.

<h1>Technology
    The system is built using Javascript, HTML, CSS and Konva Graphics.

<h1>Game Play
    Aircraft appear at any point in the upper half of the display.
    They are scaled for distance into the Z coordinates.

    As the aircraft approach the city, the player must drag the gun (left
    or right) to the correct position to intercept the aircraft when
    it comes within Z-range.

    The player touches the fire button to attempt to intercept the
    aircraft.

    When the aircraft comes within range of the city it drops its
    bombs (up to 4) on the buildings below.

    The player scores points for destroying an aircraft and loses points
    for buildings bombed.

    Play continues until a set number of raids have been executed

<h1>Display Layout
    The display consists of
        Game Introduction Panel
        Menu Bar
        Stage Area for the Graphics
        Sound On/Off Button
        Current Score 

<h2>Stage Area
    The stage area is composed using Konva Graphics with chatGPT originated
    images edited as required.

    The background of the stage a slightly cloudy day-time sky.

    The cityscape is the next layer and is composed of an arrangement of
    building images. Each building is a separate image and has an intact
    and bombed-out representation. Buildings are presented as random 
    sequences from the set.

    A layer is used to carry the aircraft on their flights across the
    stage and to represent the falling bombs.

    The next layer is the anti-aircraft gun, which can be moved left or right
    by dragging. In the group with the gun is the fire button, which when clicked
    fires a missile in the same layer as the aircraft.

<h3>Stage Graphic Scaling

    Four stage sizes are catered for:
        360 x 500
        600 x 500
        900 x 500
        1200 x 500

    The game factors are adjusted according to the display-width detected at 
    start-up.

    The background sky image is provided in each of these proportions.

    The cityscape has the number of buildings dependent on the screen width.

<h3>Aircraft Motion

    Aircraft appear at small scale in the upper portion of the stage. They 
    then travel through the Z dimension (by scaling) as well as the X and Y.
    They move in smooth curves toward the city (FlyOver, Figure of 8 or 
    ellipse in Z and X on a single Y Plane)

    The Z dimension ranges from 500 to 0 (at which the plane disappears).

    In the course of its journey through Z, the length of the plane image ranges 
    from 20 pixels to 70. The image of the aircraft has an approaching view and a 
    tail-on retreating view. It also has leftward and rightward views, depending
    on the relative x-coordinate of the centre of the stage.

    When they reach Z <= 20 they release their bombs which destroy any 
    buildings in the path of the bombs. Each plane has 4 bombs.

    The anti-aircraft fire must be x/y accurate in the Z aircraft range 50 to 0.

    Consider an "Enemy Range" Indicator on the display.

<h1>Sound Effects
    Sound Effects are optional and are initially set to OFF. They can be
    enabled by the player by clicking the speaker button on the lower portion
    of the display. When ON the sound can be turned OFF of by clicking the
    speaker button again.

    Sound effects are implemented using the Javascript sound library.
    (see Projects/JSTest/SoundEffects).

    The sounds are: 
        Flying AirCraft
        Bomb Explosion
        AA Gun fire
        Aircraft Explosion